Day-31

21/11/2025

Packages:

classes and interfaces in single is called packages.

java.lang.package :

this package is automatically imported into all java programs.
it contains fundamentals classes like Object, String, Integer, Boolean ...etc, provides basic language support such as Exceptions, Threads and the core classes of java.

For writing any java program that most commonly required classes and interfaces are encapsulated in the separate package which is nothing but java.lang.package.
 
it is not required to import java.lang package in our program because it is available by default to every java program.

What is favourite package? Why java.lang package is your favourite package.

It is not required to import java lang package explicitly but remaining packages we have to import.

Data And Time API (Joda-Time-API)

until java 1.7 version the classes present in java.util package to handle Date and Time (like Date, Calender, TimeZone...etc) are not upto the mark with respect to convince and performance. 

To overcome this problem in the 1.8 version oracle people introduced Joda-Time-API. this API was developed by joda.org and available in the form of java.time package.


import java.util.ArrayList;            =
                                         import java.util.*;
import java.util.Scanner;              =


modifiers w.r.t the packages:

1.	default package

What is it?

when no accesses modifier is specified the class, method or field has default accesses.
accessible only within the same package.
not accessible from classes in another packages.


Public Accesses:

when a class or method or field is declared public it is accessible from anywhere, regardless of the package.

Private Accesses:

Private members are accessible only within the same class.
not accessible from any other class, not even subclasses or classes in the same package.



Protected :

Protected members are accessible.

1.	with in the same package just like default accesses.
2.	in subclass even if they are different packages.